<p>This project was my path into modern web development. I love to play board games and like any good hobby should do it propelled me to build stuff to make it better. Most of my projects fall from that tree.</p>
<p>I ran across a merge sort algorithm years ago that was used to rank a list of video games. This was a fun experience for me and I wanted to translate that for the board game community. This stayed as an idea in the back of my head for a while. Fast forward a few years and I got excited enough about this project that I just started working on it, learning what JavaScript I needed as I went. At some point I decided that it would be good to make a concerted effort to learn JS instead of just tinkering with it which led me to Udemy.</p>
<p>If you want to see my progress as a web developer all you have to do is look back through the versions of the Ranking Engine. It started extremely basic but has added lots of functionality over the years as I learned more and more JS. I piggy-backed off of Wordpress for user accounts and created my own custom database tables to handle all the ranking data coming through. I wrote custom queries that calculate trending and all time rankings. I integrated with the Board Game Geek API so that users could pull in their collections to rank. I could go on.</p>
<p>What you will find today is a polished and feature rich web application that is pretty popular in the board game community and even in others. People like to rank their stuff. Who knew?</p>
